.TH ZOMBIE-REAPER 1 "2026-05-20" "zombie-reaper" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
zombie-reaper \- detect and safely reap zombie processes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zombie-reaper
.RB [ \-\-list | \-\-nudge | \-\-dry\-run ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B zombie-reaper
finds processes in the
.B Z
(zombie) state and sends
.B SIGCHLD
to their parent processes, which prompts the parent to call
.BR wait (2)
and reap the zombie. A zombie process is already dead and cannot itself be
.BR kill (1) ed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-list
(Default.) Report zombies and the recommended action. No signals sent.
.TP
.B \-\-nudge
Send
.B SIGCHLD
to each unique parent of a zombie.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Show what
.B \-\-nudge
would do without actually sending any signal.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ZOMBIE_REAPER_PROTECTED
Extended-regex alternation of parent process names that should only ever
receive
.BR SIGCHLD ,
never any escalation. The regex is anchored with
.B ^...$
internally, so write only the alternation (e.g.
.BR foo|bar|baz ).
Default:
.BR systemd|init|wazuh|ossec|dockerd|containerd|sshd .
.TP
.B ZOMBIE_REAPER_STALE_SECS
Seconds above which a zombie is considered "stale" and produces a
.B warn
log line. Default 302400 (3.5 days).
.TP
.B ZOMBIE_REAPER_LOG
Path to the append-only JSONL run log. One JSON object is appended per run with
run totals and a per-parent found/reaped tally. Defaults to
.B /var/log/zombie-reaper/reaper.jsonl
when run as root, otherwise
.BR $XDG_STATE_HOME/zombie-reaper/reaper.jsonl .
Set to the empty string to disable file logging (journal only).
.TP
.B ZOMBIE_REAPER_LOG_MAX_BYTES
Rotate the log to
.B <path>.1
once it reaches this size in bytes. Default 1048576 (1 MiB); total on-disk
footprint is bounded to twice this value.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.config/systemd/user/zombie-reaper.{service,timer}
User-scope systemd unit.
.TP
.B /etc/systemd/system/zombie-reaper.{service,timer}
System-scope systemd unit.
.TP
.B /var/log/zombie-reaper/reaper.jsonl
Default system-scope JSONL run log (root). User scope:
.BR $XDG_STATE_HOME/zombie-reaper/reaper.jsonl .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B 0
on success. Non-zero on unexpected error.
.SH PERMISSIONS
.B zombie-reaper
can only send
.B SIGCHLD
to parents it has permission to signal: same UID, or root. A user-scope
install will silently fail to nudge zombies whose parents are owned by other
users. Install system-scope for full coverage.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ps (1),
.BR kill (1),
.BR wait (2),
.BR systemd.timer (5)
